* *Queue Data Strucutre*

  - *Queue* is a linear data structure that follows the FIFO (First In First Out) principle. It is a linear data structure that stores a collection of elements. It has two ends, a front and a rear, and the elements are added at the rear and removed from the front. The element that is added first is the one that is removed first.

** *Types of Queue Data Structure:*

   ~ *Simple Queue:* In a simple queue, the elements are added at the rear and removed from the front.
   ~ *Double Ended Queue:* In a double-ended queue, the elements can be added and removed from both the front and the rear.
   ~~ *Input Restricted Queue:* In an input-restricted queue, the elements are added at the rear and removed from both the front and the rear.
   ~~ *Output Restricted Queue:* In an output-restricted queue, the elements are added at both the front and the rear and removed from the front.
   ~ *Priority Queue:* In a priority queue, the elements are added based on their priority and removed based on their priority.
   ~~ *Ascending Priority Queue:* In an ascending priority queue, the element with the lowest priority is removed first.
   ~~ *Descending Priority Queue:* In a descending priority queue, the element with the highest priority is removed first.
   ~ *Circular Queue:* This is a type of queue in which the last element is connected to the first element to form a circle. This allows the elements to be added and removed in a circular manner. FIFO principle is followed in this type of queue.
