* What is a String

  String is considered a data type in general and is typically represented as arrays of bytes (or words) that store a sequence of characters. String is defined as an array of characters. The difference between a character array and a string is the string is terminated with a special character ‘\\0’.

** String Operations

   - *Concatenation*: Combining two strings to create a new string.
   - *Length*: Determining the number of characters in a string.
   - *Access*: Accessing individual characters in a string by index.
   - *Substring*: Extracting a portion of a string.
   - *Comparison*: Comparing two strings to check for equality or order.
   - *Search*: Finding the position of a specific substring within a string.
   - *Modification*: Changing or replacing characters within a string.

** Applications of Strings

   - *Text Processing*: Strings are extensively used for text processing tasks such as searching, manipulating, and analyzing textual data.
   - *Data Representation*: Strings are fundamental for representing and manipulating data in formats like JSON, XML, and CSV.
   - *Encryption and Hashing*: Strings are commonly used in encryption and hashing algorithms to secure sensitive data and ensure data integrity.
   - *Database Operations*: Strings are essential for working with databases, including storing and querying text-based data.
   - *Web Development*: Strings are utilized in web development for constructing URLs, handling form data, processing input from web forms, and generating dynamic content.

